# 650-Project
BIOSTATISTICS 650 GROUP PROJECT Analysis of the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey Data Background:  The National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) program at the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is a cross-sectional survey study  designed to assess the health and nutritional status of adults and children in the United  States. It began in the 1960s and since 1999 the survey moved to continuous data  collection in two-year cycles. Approximately 5,000 individuals of all ages are interviewed  in their homes every year and complete the health examination component of the  survey. The sample for each two-year cycle is representative of the NHANES target  population, which is the non-institutionalized civilian resident population of the United  States. NHANES is used to determine the prevalence of major diseases and risk factors  for diseases, as well as to assess nutritional status and its association with health  promotion and disease prevention. NHANES findings are also the basis for national  standards for measurements such as height, weight, and blood pressure. You can read  more about NHANES on the CDC’s website. The CDC uses sampling strategies (2007-2010, 2011-2014) to purposefully oversample  certain subpopulations like racial minorities. Naive analysis of the original NHANES data  can lead to mistaken conclusions because the percentages of people from each racial  group in the data, for example, are quite different from the way they are in the target  population. In this project, you will use the “NHANES” data from the R package  “NHANES”. Please refer to this file for variable definitions and usage of the  package/data. This dataset contains 10,000 individuals resampled from the original  2009-2010 and 2011-2012 NHANES data and can be treated as if it were a simple  random sample from the US population. Please investigate the association between X  (predictor of interest) and Y (outcome of interest). You will determine what X and Y are,  as well as your own scientific question(s) of interest. Note that the outcome of interest  can be either continuous or discrete as long as you can justify why using linear  regression is appropriate for answering your scientific question.
